Climate change is negatively impacting food, energy and water security across all corners
of the globe.
There are people who are food insecure, there are people who don't have access to clean
drinking water and there's definitely people who also don't have access to reliable energy.
We're seeing the effects of it in Maryland, we're seeing the effects of it in other areas
of the U.S. and we're also seeing the effects in these countries that we're working with.
Our UMD Global Stewards program took a group of our fellows to Nepal.
And we were able to do a hike to this beautiful mountain range in the Himalayas.
For our students to better understand how, from a very grassroots level, our collaborators
in Nepal are addressing food and water insecurity.
Our tour guide, she said to us, if you notice the ground that we're standing on, 20 years
ago this used to be covered in snow and we all looked down and the ground was just, you
know, brown dirt.
And therefore the water supply that people rely on from the snowmelt is reducing in
later months of the year.
Our students were able to observe how our collaborators have established over 200 rainwater
collection ponds.
They're allowing Nepali farming communities to store the water during the monsoon season
and use it for a future harvest.
That is just a really great example of some of the things that we are trying to do with
our Global Future Alliance project.
And we're so excited about the partnerships that we're forming, both here in Maryland,
in Nepal, Israel, and Tanzania.
And I'm so happy that we're going to involve students at almost every level of this project.
As one of the institutional grants for the Grand Challenges program, our big goal is
to alleviate food, energy, and water insecurity, protect environmental and global public health,
and bolster community resilience in a changing climate.
By putting $30 million towards these Grand Challenges, it's just an indication to us
and to Maryland and to the U.S., the world as a whole, that the University of Maryland
is super committed.
And if we want to have a secure future for the next generation, we need to do something
now.
We want to be able to have something that's sustainable and in place for years to come.
I think it's going to be really impactful.
